All right, guys.
So now we're going to get into functions and mix ins.
Now, if you've ever worked with a programming language, whether it's JavaScript, PHP, any language
at all, you've probably worked with functions.
It's basically just a block of code that you can keep calling so you don't have to keep repeating yourself.
So what I want to do is create a new sass file, a partial.
So I'm going to say new file underscore.
We'll call this underscore functions, CSS.
And then and here I want to create a function to set the text color.
Now the difference between the main difference between a function and a mix in is a function actually
returns something you have to use the return keyword.
A mix in is just basically a set of styles that you want to include.
And I'll give you some examples of this.
So to create a function, we use the symbol when we say function and we're going to call this set dash
text, dash color.
And by the way, this is a very helpful function that I use all the time in SASS, and it's going to
take in a parameter of a color.
All right.
Now we're going to use what's called a color function, along with a conditional to see the lightness
of the color that's passed in.
So to create a conditional, we do what we do at the add symbol and then if and then our condition goes
in here.
So what we're testing is going to be the lightness.
So we have lightness of the color.
So basically whatever is passed in here, we're checking the lightness and we want to see if it's greater
than 50.
So greater than basically 50% lightness.
If that's true, then we want to return.
So we say at return and we want to return a dark.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
A dark color which will just do black.
Else.
Think should we need to do at ll?
So always forget that at LL.
Then we want to add return a light color.
So we'll do white.
So it's going to get passed in the color, which is going to be the background color.
Actually, maybe we should call this.
Well, the color is fine.
Just know that it's going to be the background color and it's going to check the lightness of it.
If it's greater than 50, meaning it's light, then we want to return a dark color.
If it's less than 50, meaning it's dark, then we want a light color because obviously we want the
text to contrast.
So I'm going to save this and I'm just going to restart this down here and PM run sass and I'm going
to go into my main dot success and I'm going to import.
The functions file.
And then I want to let's go to the header where we have right here the color of this h one of this of
this will basically have anything that's in the header and I'm going to replace this with set dash text,
dash color.
All right.
Now this set text colour takes in, remember a background colour and we want to put in whatever we used.
Here is the background, which in this case is dark colour.
So we'll paste that in there.
And now let's save file to import not found or unreachable.
Unreachable.
It's because I called the file function.
I actually want to call it functions.
All right.
So we're just going to restart in PM run SAS.
All right, so let's reload now.
It's going to look the same.
But if I now change the the header background to something light like let's change it to.
Light color and then we pass in the same the light color here and we save the text is now dark.
OC If I do background primary color, primary color, it's going to evaluate the lightness of it.
And it found that the lightness is less than 50, so it gives it a white background.
Secondary color is a brighter color.
So I'm going to bet that the text is going to be dark.
So secondary color for the background and now the text is dark, so it makes it dynamic.
So you don't have to if you if you want to change the background, then you can it'll dynamically change
the text to whether it should be light or dark.
You don't have to decide that this function does it for you.
All right.
So I'm just going to put this back to dark like that.
All right?
And then I just want to use this sex set text color pretty much everywhere.
So we'll go down here and paste set in and we just want to pass in whatever the background is.
Okay.
So we'll do it here as well.
And we'll set this to secondary color.
And let's do it here.
This has light color as a background.
And then down here this has dot color as a background.
So once I save this, it should all still be correct.
So I'll save.
And this actually changed to dark because of the light background and that.
Yeah, that's it.
So hopefully that makes sense guys.
It just this is helpful because it allows us to basically set the color dynamically, but functions
in general are helpful so that you don't have to keep repeating code and so are mixed in.
So now we're going to look at creating a mix in and all I want this mix in to do we're going to put
it right in the functions file is I want it to add a transform so basically if we want like if we want
it to add a transform to make this button curve or something like that, we can do that.
So let's say this is going to be the transform mix in and once we start doing this stuff in the next
project, it'll make more sense as well.
So a mix in, we're going to say add mix in and then name it.
I'm just going to call it Transform and it's going to take in a property.
Now, in some cases, you may want to use prefixes for for newer CSS.
And that's another good reason to to use mix ins.
We can like let's say we wanted to do web kit, dash transform.
It should be a dash.
So Web kit transform, set it to property and maybe we want to do dash MZ Dash transform.
And set that to property.
And then, of course, just transform, set that to property.
So if you have a block of styles that you don't want to keep repeating in your your sass, you can just
put it into a mix in.
So now if I want to go back to my main JS and let's say on the hover state of these buttons, I want
to add a transform that rotates them a little bit.
So I'll go right here and let's put in ampersand hover and let's set.
The mix in now to include a mix and you actually have to do the act include and then the name of the
mix in which is transform in the property we want to pass in is going to be let's do rotate and let's
rotate it 20 degrees and I'm going to do the same thing for the doc, so I'll paste that in if it's
stuck though, let's do, let's do -20, we'll rotate it the opposite way.
So if I save now when I hover over this you'll see it rotates 20 degrees, this one rotates that way.
So instead of using this, these three lines in both of these places, I can put it in a mix in and
just include that.
I mean, you don't really need web kit and RMS anymore for Transform.
However, if it's a different if it's a newer CSS property that you do need prefixes, this is a good
way to include them.
And not just for prefixes, but for anything, any set of styles that you're going to reuse.
So let's see.
The last thing I want to show you is some of the color functions.
So we have lighten and darken, let's say in addition to just tilting these, we want them to either
darken or lighten a little bit.
So in the hover here, I'm going to set the background dash color.
So the background color is, is this light color by default, let's say I just want to darken it a little
bit so we can say darken.
So this is a pre defined function.
I don't have to create it and we just pass in two things the color we want.
So we'll say light color and then how much we want to darken it.
So we're going to do 10%, so I'll save that.
Now when I hover over it, notice that the color darkens 10%.
We also have lighten.
So I'm going to just copy what I just did, go down here to this hover and let's change this to lighten,
oops, lighten.
And this has the dark color and we're going to lighten it 10%.
So we'll save.
And then when I hover over it, you'll see that it lightens 10%.
All right.
So you can see that there's some really cool functionality with SAS.
It really allows us to write our CSS more like a programming language.
Conditionals.
You can't do this stuff with standard CSS, pre-made functions and mix ins.
You can do variables.
However, you can see that the variables with SAS are much more elegant.
You know, you don't have to do the Var and the parentheses and, you know, stuff like that.
All right.
So hopefully this little crash course or the sandbox made sense.
In the next video, we're going to start to build a real project using SAS, which will be a portfolio
website.
All right, so I'll see you in the next project.